---
layout: post
title:  "The Watch"
date:   2014-09-09 01:21:49
categories:
---

At this point, it's [nearly certain][GruberPrelude] that Apple will announce a new wearable device tomorrow. Let's assume it exits and call it "The Watch". In all likelihood, it will not resemble a lip balm tin.

My hunch is The Watch will be (and be marketed as) an intensely personal device. A thing that can access your bank account, manipulate your environment while in your home and car, measure and monitor your health. In the way that an iPhone represents an outside world of tweets, emails, movies, and input; The Watch will represent you back to that world.

In line with this core proposition, I suspect Apple will be reluctant to make traditional lock screen notifications a major selling point or feature of The Watch. It's simply not a thing for the outside world to jam itself into. Access will be extremely closely guarded by the iOS, and perhaps require a Touch ID scan before an app is granted permission to interact with it. Apple will go out of their way to emphasize that The Watch is a safe place for _your_ stuff. 

The other angle on this requires The Watch to be incredibly durable. You can't have to stop to take off your The Watch to get in the pool or play a game of basketball. It needs to be shock and waterproof. You should never have to take it off when out. I wouldn't be surprised if The Watch required a Touch ID authentication every time it's put on, and unpairs when taken off.

If it has a screen, my hope is that it's going to be positioned on the inside of the wrist. I see an inherent contradiction in having a screen outwardly displaying information from a device as personal as The Watch. The simple choice of facing the screen inward would make the device discreet and intimate. Interacting with it will be like taking your heartbeat instead of checking what time your monocle fell out.

In my mind, the role for The Watch is as the all-powerful controller for Apple's ecosystem. That is the thing it can do an order of magnitude better than existing products. It's a remote for your iPhone, Mac, Apple TV, car stereo, light switch, and air conditioner. It can be a shutter for your camera, a trigger for your waffle-maker, essentially, whatever. The interface will likely be icon and gesture driven. Swipes and giant tap targets. It would be a gd travesty if the screen was frequently used to display 10 truncated words from an email or text message spread over 3 lines. Interactions with The Watch will be in and out; extremely quick, but potentially frequent.

None of this isn't to say that every single detail involved with this isn't a monumental challenge, but I think Apple, and [only Apple][OnlyApple] can pull it off. If they manage it, that package of safely wielded power is incredibly potent.

[GruberPrelude]: http://daringfireball.net/2014/09/prelude
[OnlyApple]: http://daringfireball.net/2014/06/only_apple